readme.md, before:

# Blurryface: offline face blurring tool

Prototype Windows/Mac OS app for automatically blurring faces in photos. It was born out of the need to blur faces when publishing photos of protests, especially Palestine solidarity protests after Oct. 7, 2023.

There are several prototype versions currently in the repository
- P0: initial tests with Python scripts. MVP using RetinaFace
- P1: functional but suboptimal (330 mb bundle, a bit slow) Python Eel desktop app, using RetinaFace
- P2: onnxruntime-web and neutrino app, using UltraFace (modified RetinaFace)

## Dev notes

### P1

Make venv then install packages with `pip install -r requirements.txt`. Update with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`

Build commands, per [Eel instructions](https://github.com/python-eel/Eel#building-distributable-binary-with-pyinstaller) -- cd to `eel` folder and then build with the following:
- Windows: `python -m eel main.py web --noconsole --onefile --icon icons/icon.ico -n Blurryface`.
- Mac: tbd, it needs a different icon format

12/20/2023: bottle v0.12.25 seems to cause problems with the Pyinstaller Windows build. Per this [StackOverflow thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/75192206/why-my-packaged-eel-app-failed-to-execute-attributeerror-nonetype-object-ha) I manually replaced bottle.py in my AppData Scripts and site-packages folders with the [v0.13-dev version of the file in the bottle.py repository](https://github.com/bottlepy/bottle/blob/master/bottle.py).

### P0

objectives/constraints
- must work offline and on-device, be reasonably fast on a reasonable laptop
- must recognize faces that are masked, hooded, glasses on, otherwise partially obscured
- eventually: create GUI that's easy for anyone on Mac OS and Windows to use (mobile eventually?)

dev notes
- opencv default face detection filter tested -- not great
- [face-recognition](https://pypi.org/project/face-recognition/) tested. it was okay but this package doesn't expose a lot of parameters
- [RetinaFace worked really well](https://sefiks.com/2021/04/27/deep-face-detection-with-retinaface-in-python/). Found via [DeepFace](https://github.com/serengil/deepface). Part of [InsightFace](https://insightface.ai/)
- sensitive-test-images folder has real-world sensitive images that this tool would be used on. hidden in .gitignore

Commit message:

fix some onnx file errors

readme.md, after:

# Blurryface: offline face blurring tool

Prototype Windows/Mac OS app for automatically blurring faces in photos. It was born out of the need to blur faces when publishing photos of protests, especially Palestine solidarity protests after Oct. 7, 2023.

There are several prototype versions currently in the repository
- P0: initial tests with Python scripts. MVP using RetinaFace
- P1: functional but suboptimal (330 mb bundle, a bit slow) Python Eel desktop app, using RetinaFace
- P2: onnxruntime-web and neutrino app, using UltraFace (modified RetinaFace)

## Dev notes

### P3

2023-12-26: used [https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/blob/main/tools/python/remove_initializer_from_input.py](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/blob/main/tools/python/remove_initializer_from_input.py) on UltraFace .onnx file per [https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/4033](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/4033) to get rid of a bunch of error messages. There were 244 before. 35 remain.

### P1

Make venv then install packages with `pip install -r requirements.txt`. Update with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`

Build commands, per [Eel instructions](https://github.com/python-eel/Eel#building-distributable-binary-with-pyinstaller) -- cd to `eel` folder and then build with the following:
- Windows: `python -m eel main.py web --noconsole --onefile --icon icons/icon.ico -n Blurryface`.
- Mac: tbd, it needs a different icon format

12/20/2023: bottle v0.12.25 seems to cause problems with the Pyinstaller Windows build. Per this [StackOverflow thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/75192206/why-my-packaged-eel-app-failed-to-execute-attributeerror-nonetype-object-ha) I manually replaced bottle.py in my AppData Scripts and site-packages folders with the [v0.13-dev version of the file in the bottle.py repository](https://github.com/bottlepy/bottle/blob/master/bottle.py).

### P0

objectives/constraints
- must work offline and on-device, be reasonably fast on a reasonable laptop
- must recognize faces that are masked, hooded, glasses on, otherwise partially obscured
- eventually: create GUI that's easy for anyone on Mac OS and Windows to use (mobile eventually?)

dev notes
- opencv default face detection filter tested -- not great
- [face-recognition](https://pypi.org/project/face-recognition/) tested. it was okay but this package doesn't expose a lot of parameters
- [RetinaFace worked really well](https://sefiks.com/2021/04/27/deep-face-detection-with-retinaface-in-python/). Found via [DeepFace](https://github.com/serengil/deepface). Part of [InsightFace](https://insightface.ai/)
- sensitive-test-images folder has real-world sensitive images that this tool would be used on. hidden in .gitignore
